Intro of problem

Background

What tools

Methodology

How we solved it

Results

What we can use it for

Tensile test

Digital Image correlation

Noisy for accurate measurements

15 min

put focus on the loss function

experimented with weighing the terms in different ways.


Extra Challenge

Train it here and create some other problem w different problem w diff geometry and see if it generalizes.
Material parameters as input and do a bunch of different data points with actual parameters known. 
The parameters  

Validate/test the model with some some different geometries, cylinder, cube.
Create training data, shap
When FEM is too hard to solve you cna make a surrogate model

Add plasticity
recurrent model that has hidden variable that takes care of the plastic accumulated strain 

Create some different geometry, run some finite elements, phyics loss and data loss part. 
You have your model and some stress strain curves. 

Abbacus FEM
surrogate model that you train up. 


Hyper parameters 
OPtimizer what u use
Adam everyone knows its always okay, there are other that are better requires more tuning 
Do more iterations

lasso and ridge, alot is built 

Adam, has labda weight decay. Lasso 2. IT only changeds the weights it checks the gradients, it checks the size of the weights. Your loss function will change.

L2 regularization, called weight decay is somethign we can add to the loss function. Can make convergence harder. Might be more robust compare lasso and ridge. 

learn rate scheduling. Learn rate. grad(loss fn) weights will
w = w -alpha*grad(loss)

alpha is the learn rate

lr

optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr= 1e-2)

lr i slearn rate, too small learn rate might get stuck in local minima, too large leran rate and it might jump past the global minima

learn rate scheduling, start w large learnrate then slowly decreate it.

LRScheduler, change the learn rate, depending on the training epoch.



Extra Challenges
1. For same problem we can find the FEM solution.
2. L2 regularization, weight decay requires more tuning. Should prevent overfitting.
3. LRate Scheduler
4. Input different material parameter 
